README.md, before:

Library and Script with Example to explore High Dimensional Bifurcations with sample and clustering based methods using Julia language.

It uses Julia 1.x (CI/CD test with Julia 1.3).
It is not backwards compatible to Julia < v0.7

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/maximilian-gelbrecht/MCBB.jl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/maximilian-gelbrecht/MCBB.jl/branches)
[![doc dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://maximilian-gelbrecht.github.io/MCBB.jl/dev)


# NEWS

Moved to GitHub. Some things still need to be updated accordingly.

# Paper

A paper describing the article was just submitted to the arXiv (Link will follow). If you use this package, please always cite this paper.

# Documentation

The documentation can be found at [![doc dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://maximilian-gelbrecht.github.io/MCBB.jl/dev)


# Install

In `Pkg` shell doing:
```
pkg> add https://github.com/maximilian-gelbrecht/MCBB.jl.git

```
should work, if you encounter any problem updating all packages with
```
pkg> up
```
can help, otherwise (and if you want to contribute) you can manually clone it:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/maximilian-gelbrecht/MCBB.jl.git
$ cd MCBB
pkg> dev /path/to/package
```
The `dev` will make Julia load the module always from the local files.

Then, you can test the installation with
```
pkg> test MCBB
```

The package will be added to the Julia registry soon.

# Updates

```
pkg> update MCBB
```

Commit message:

updated with link to paper

README.md, after:

Library and Script with Example to explore High Dimensional Bifurcations with sample and clustering based methods using Julia language.

It uses Julia 1.x (CI/CD test with Julia 1.3).
It is not backwards compatible to Julia < v0.7

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/maximilian-gelbrecht/MCBB.jl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/maximilian-gelbrecht/MCBB.jl/branches)
[![doc dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://maximilian-gelbrecht.github.io/MCBB.jl/dev)


# NEWS

Moved to GitHub. Some things still need to be updated accordingly.

# Paper

A paper describing the article was is published in New Journal of Physics (Open Access) http://dio.org/10.1088/1367-2630/ab7a05

# Documentation

The documentation can be found at [![doc dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://maximilian-gelbrecht.github.io/MCBB.jl/dev)


# Install

In `Pkg` shell doing:
```
pkg> add https://github.com/maximilian-gelbrecht/MCBB.jl.git

```
should work, if you encounter any problem updating all packages with
```
pkg> up
```
can help, otherwise (and if you want to contribute) you can manually clone it:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/maximilian-gelbrecht/MCBB.jl.git
$ cd MCBB
pkg> dev /path/to/package
```
The `dev` will make Julia load the module always from the local files.

Then, you can test the installation with
```
pkg> test MCBB
```

The package will be added to the Julia registry soon.

# Updates

```
pkg> update MCBB
```
